Episode 26, George.
Eventually, we came to a small road leading out of the city and into the countryside.
It was full of potholes and in abysmal condition.
“Actually, we have new highway now, thanks to you, George, but there
is many checkpoints, so we take old roads,” Haydiniv explained.
“This time, you see the real Ankhazastan.
I show you Borokov Prison and I introduce you to workers from chemical weapon facility.”
As we drove towards Borokov, we began to run low on petrol.
We passed by the same petrol station that we had used on our last trip… but it was now closed.
“I hope we don’t run out of petrol,” I told Haydiniv.
“I hope so, too,” said Haydiniv.
“I have extra canisters in the back, but every day more and more petrol stations getting closed.”
“And there are not many cars on the road,” I observed.
We had only seen a handful of other vehicles in an hour of driving.
“To buy a car in Ankhazastan is ten years of salary for normal worker.
And you can only buy Soviet-era reject cars,” Haydiniv explained.
Elizabeth spoke up, “So… how did you afford this one, Haydiniv?” “This one?” Haydiniv asked.
“I stole this one.”
Elizabeth and I looked at each other.
I wished we had a more reliable guide, but Haydiniv was at least street-smart.
He had been telling us about conditions in Ankhazastan, but I didn’t trust his words.
I had told him I wanted to SEE for myself.
We turned off the main road and started driving up a steep hill.
“Where are we going, exactly?” I asked.
“To SEE for yourself,” was all Haydiniv would say.
After about fifteen minutes of driving, we reached the top of the steep hill, which
gave an excellent panoramic view of the small towns and villages in the valley below.
Haydiniv pulled the car over, reached into the glove compartment and pulled out some binoculars.
Outside the car, he focused the binoculars and handed them to me.
I looked through them and saw the small village we had visited on our last trip.
I could even see the café near the clock tower – it was closed down now.
“To the right,” Haydiniv commanded.
“See the school?”
“Yes, it’s closed down and abandoned,” I said.
“Okay, look further right.”
Beyond the poverty of the village, there was a massive shiny
new building, with men with machine guns patrolling the walls.
A prison!
I remembered how, on our last trip, the villagers denied there was a prison nearby.
I wish we had pushed them harder.
“More further to the right,” Haydiniv said, and I did so.
“What do you see, George?” asked Elizabeth.
I replied, “It’s some kind of factory.
It looks newly built.
There’s a lot of activity.”
“That’s place where they research and construct chemical weapons,” Haydiniv said.
“Nerve gas.”
“But why is it so close to the prison?
It’s virtually next door.”
“Why do you think?
You tell me,” said Haydiniv.
I knew the answer.
The prisoners were the workers.
That was why the secret never got out.
And prisoners couldn’t complain about safety conditions.
All paid for with money arranged by me.
Nerve gas didn’t only kill soldiers; it killed civilians.
A cruel and senseless death.
Once again, Miki had made a fool out of me.
I wish I had never met Miki Unjonginiv.